---
layout: post
title: “Factory Girl—Leslie T. Chang”
author: "Lu Dong"
categories: reading
tags: [book]
image: factoryGirl.jpg
---

I know Leslie through her TED talk on Chinese factory girls. I enjoyed her book a lot. It opened up a new perspective on how to look at my people. 

The book has two narrations, one focuses on her encountering in dongguan and the other is about Leslie’s own family linage. These two narrations is somewhat disjoint, I would wish to know more about Leslie’s personal background rather than that of her families. Her narration of the factory girl is warm and funny, I could imagine the Chinese version of every dialogue she has with these girls. 

Millions of girls left their home to come to the city for better life, especially to places like Dongguan. Most of them work in the factory, the assembly line, some also work in pyramid sale. The author captured several common features of these girls: 

1) They are strivers. I know from my bone this desire and determination for a better life. I know it from the words my primary school teacher said: you strive every minute for better exam scores. Most girls work in assembly lines and they work 10 hours per day and 6.5 days a week. They have almost zero me-time, and they are squeezed in a 12 people room with the living condition Leslie resembles as prison. Yet, they strive every day to learn new things. They are constantly worried of being lagged behind by newest trend and keen to educate themselves. 

2) They learn social relations and english. It makes me laugh out loud to learn the author’s experience in vocational school, seeing how these girls are instructed to speak english and display social manner. 

3) They are desperate for a partner. The girls face enormous pressure in the marriage market. The author’s experience in the making friends club is hilarious. She joked about most Chinese people’s hopelessness in talking to strangers, which is true, and she also briefly touched the sex industry. 

The author wrote that she often eat alone in some local restaurant with a notebook at hand or some American magazines. This depiction is so aspiring, a girl with a journal. I wish to learn from her journalist narration, though my area is in cold academia. I wish I could also have this habit of writing notes in a notebook and as observant as her. 

Below I copied down some quotes from the book which I love:

> But suffering in silence is not how migrant workers see themselves. To come out from home and work in a factory is the hardest thing they have ever done. It is also an adventure. What keeps them in the city is not fear but pride: to return home early is to admit defeat. To go out and stay out is to change your fate. 

> The parents of migrants had terrible instincts. At every stage, they gave bad advice; they specialised in outdated knowledge and conservatism born out of fear. Some initially forbade their children, especially their daughters, from going out at all. But once a migrant got to the city, the parental message shifted dramatically: Send home money, the more the better. Some parents pressured their daughters to marry, though only someone from their home province. On the job front, their advice was invariably bad: They warned against jumping factories, which was usually the best way to get ahead. 

> Chinese people are bad at dealing with strangers; if someone doesn’t fit into their known universe of family, classmates, or colleagues, the usual response is to ignore him. My Chinese friends in Beijing were hopeless at parties—they stuck with whatever group they came with, locked into position like a squadron of fighter planes flying into combat in the one formation they knew. 

> Whenever I watched Chinese people interact in a group setting, I understood in my bones how the Cultural Revolution happened. People were terrified of being singled out, but from the safety of the group they could turn on someone with a speed and ferocity that took your breath away. 

> When you asked about individual experiences, people tended to retreat into the collective voice. *So many people suffered*—as if that rationalised everything. 